Virtual-Systems
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/virtual-systems

Enable virtual systems.
Select Device>Setup>Management >and edit the General Settings.

Select the Multi Virtual System Capability check box and click OK. This action triggers a commit if you approve it.

Only after enabling virtual systems will the Device tab display the Virtual Systems and Shared Gateways options.

Create a virtual system.

Select DeviceVirtual Systems, click Add and enter a virtual system ID, which is appended to “vsys” (range is 1-255).

The default is vsys1. You cannot delete vsys1 because it is relevant to the internal hierarchy on the firewall;
 vsys1 appears even on firewall models that don’t support multiple virtual systems.


Select Allow forwarding of decrypted content if you want to allow the firewall 
to forward decrypted content to an outside service. For example, you must enable 
this option for the firewall to be able to send decrypted content to WildFire for analysis.

Enter a descriptive Name for the virtual system. 
A maximum of 31 alphanumeric, space,
 and underscore characters is allowed.

Assign interfaces to the virtual system.

The virtual routers, virtual wires, 
or VLANs can either be configured already or you can configure them 
later, at which point you specify the virtual system associated with each.

On the General tab, select a DNS Proxy object 
if you want to apply DNS proxy rules to the interface.

In the Interfaces field, click 
Add to enter the interfaces or subinterfaces to assign to the virtual system.
 An interface can belong to only one virtual system.

Do any of the following, based on the deployment
type(s) you need in the virtual system:

In the VLANs field, click 
Add to enter the VLAN(s) to assign to the vsys.

In the Virtual Wires field, 
click Add to enter the virtual wire(s)
 to assign to the vsys.

In the Virtual Routers field, 
click Add to enter the virtual router(s) to assign to the vsys.

In the Visible Virtual System field, 
check all virtual systems that should be made visible 
to the virtual system being configured. This is required
 for virtual systems that need to communicate with each other.

In a multi-tenancy scenario where strict administrative boundaries 
are required, no virtual systems would be checked.


Click OK.