

default—  Applies the default action to all client and server critical, 
	high, and medium severity spyware/vulnerability protection events. 
	It does not detect low and informational events.
	
strict— Applies the block response to all client and server critical, 
	high and medium severity spyware/vulnerability protection events 
	and uses the default action for low and informational events.
	
	



----------------------------------Verify Subscription ---------------------------------------------------------------------------	
1.)Verify that you have a Threat Prevention subscription.
	select Device:> Licenses >and verify 
		77that the Threat Prevention expiration date is in the future.
	
2.) Download latest content
	-Select Device >Dynamic Updates >and click Check Now 
		at the bottom of the page to retrieve the latest signatures.
	
	-Actions column, click Download and install 
		the latest Antivirus updates and then download and then Install 
		the latest Applications and Threats updates.
	
3.) Schedule content updates.
	-Select Device>Dynamic Updates >and then click Schedule
		to automatically retrieve signature updates for 
		Antivirus and Applications and Threats.
	
	-Specify the frequency and timing for the updates:
	
		download-only—The firewall automatically downloads 
		the latest updates per the schedule 
		you define but you must manually Install them
	
		download-and-install—The firewall automatically downloads and installs
		the updates per the schedule you define.
		
	-click ok
	
	
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4.)
	-(Optional) Create custom security profiles for antivirus, anti-spyware, and vulnerability protection.
	-To create custom Antivirus Profiles, select Objects >Security Profiles>Antivirus 
	and Add a new profile. Use the Antivirus profile transition steps to safely reach your goal.
	
	-To create custom Anti-Spyware Profiles, >select Objects
	Security Profiles>Anti-Spyware >and Add a new profile. 
	Use the Anti-Spyware profile transition steps to safely reach your goal.
	
	-To create custom Vulnerability Protection Profiles, select Objects>Security Profiles>Vulnerability 
	Protection and Add a new profile.
	Use the Vulnerability Protection profile transition steps to safely reach your goal.
	
5.) Attach security profiles to your Security policy rules.
(security profile will automatically block connections that traffic ... See monitor blocked ip's)
	-Select Policies>Security >and select the rule you want to modify.
	-In the Actions tab, select Profiles as the Profile Type.
	-Select the security profiles you created for Antivirus, Anti-Spyware, and Vulnerability Protection.
	
6.) Commit

 (Monitor>Logs>Threat) to see if you can block applications for which you receive alerts or if you need to allow them.
 The default action for most low and informational severity signatures is alert or allow. Unless you have a specific need to alert on all low and informational signatures, configure the default action from the start.
 
 

 
 
 
----------------------Best Practice Internet Gateway File Blocking Profile:--------------------------------

Use the predefined strict file blocking profile to block files that are commonly included in malware attack campaigns 
and that have no real use case for upload/download. Blocking these files reduces the attack surface.
 The predefined strict profile blocks batch files, DLLs, Java class files, help files,
 Windows shortcuts (.lnk), BitTorrent files, .rar files, .tar files, encrypted-rar and encrypted-zip files, 
 multi-level encoded files (files encoded or compressed up to four times), .hta files, 
 and Windows Portable Executable (PE) files, which include 
 .exe, .cpl, .dll, .ocx, .sys, .scr, .drv, .efi, .fon, and .pif files. 
 The predefined strict profile alerts on all other file types for visibility into other file transfers
 so that you can determine if you need to make policy changes.
 
 
 Review the data filtering logs (MonitorLogsData Filtering) 
 to identify file types and talk with business stakeholders 
 about the file types their applications require.
 
What if I can’t block all of the file types covered in the predefined strict profile?
If you have mission-critical applications that prevent you from 
blocking all of the file types included in the predefined strict profile,
you can clone the profile and modify it for those users 
who must transfer a file type covered






-----------------------Best Practice Internet Gateway Antivirus Profile----------------------------------------------
Clone the default Antivirus profile and edit it. 





----------------Best Practice Internet Gateway Vulnerability Protection Profile---------------------------------
Attach a Vulnerability Protection profile to all allowed traffic 
to protect against buffer overflows, illegal code execution,
and other attempts to exploit client- and server-side vulnerabilities. 
Clone the predefined strict Vulnerability Protection profile. 


For the best practice profile, for each rule except simple-client-informational 
and simple-server-informational, double-click the Rule Name and change 
Packet Capture from disable to single-packet to enable packet capture (PCAP)
for each rule so you can track down the source of potential attacks. 
Don’t change the rest of the settings. Download content updates automatically 
and install them as soon as possible so that the signature set is always up-to-date.

Don’t enable PCAP for informational activity because it generates a relatively high volume
 of that traffic and it’s not particularly useful compared to potential threats. 
 Apply extended PCAP (as opposed to single PCAP) to high-value traffic to 
 which you apply the alert Action. 
 
Apply single PCAP to traffic you block. The default number of packets that extended PCAP records 
and sends to the management plane is five packets, which is the recommended value. In most cases, 
capturing five packets provides enough information to analyze the threat. If too much PCAP traffic 
is sent to the management plane, then capturing more than five packets may result in dropping PCAPs.



-------------------Best Practice Internet Gateway Anti-Spyware Profile--------------------------------------

Attach an Anti-Spyware profile to all allowed traffic to detect command and control traffic (C2) 
initiated from malicious code running on a server or endpoint and prevent compromised systems 
from establishing an outbound connection from your network. 
Clone the predefined strict Anti-Spyware profile and edit it. 

 Edit the profile to enable DNS sinkhole and packet capture to help you track down 
 the endpoint that attempted to resolve the malicious domain. The best practice
 Anti-Spyware profile retains the default Action to reset the connection when the 
 firewall detects a medium, high, or critical severity threat, and enables single
 packet capture (PCAP) for those threats.
 
 The best practice Action on DNS Queries is to block or to sinkhole DNS queries
 for known malicious domains. It is also a best practice to enable PCAPs.
 
 Enabling DNS sinkhole identifies potentially compromised hosts that attempt 
 to access suspicious domains by tracking the hosts and preventing them from 
 accessing those domains. Enable DNS sinkhole when the firewall can’t see the
 originator of the DNS query (typically when the firewall is north of the local DNS server)
 so that you can identify infected hosts. Don’t enable DNS sinkhole when the firewall can see 
 the originator of the DNS query (typically when the firewall is south of the local DNS server; 
 in this case, the firewall’s blocking rules and logs provide visibility into the traffic) 
 or on traffic you block.
 
 
 
 --------------------Best Practice Internet Gateway URL Filtering Profile------------------------------------
Use PAN-DB URL filtering to prevent access to web content high-risk for being malicious. 
Attach a URL Filtering profile to all rules that allow access to web-based applications 
to protect against URLs that Palo Alto Networks has observed hosting 
malware or exploitive content.

 The best practice URL Filtering profile sets all known dangerous URL categories to block. 
 These include command-and-control, copyright-infringement, dynamic-dns, extremism, malware,
 phishing, proxy-avoidance-and-anonymizers, unknown, newly-registered-domain, grayware, and parked. 
 Failure to block these dangerous categories puts you at risk for exploit infiltration, 
 malware download, command-and-control activity, and data exfiltration.
 
 In addition to blocking known bad categories, alert on all other categories so you have visibility 
 into the sites your users are visiting. If you need to phase in a block policy, set categories
 to continue and create a custom response page to educate users about your acceptable use policies
 and alert them to the fact they are visiting a site that may pose a threat. This paves the way for 
 you to outright block the categories after a monitoring period.
 
 If you have a business purpose for a dynamic DNS domain, 
 then make sure you allow those URLs in your URL Filtering profile.
 
 If you are running PAN-OS 9.0.4 or later, ensure that the firewall 
 handles user web requests as securely as possible by enabling the o
 ption to hold client requests (enter config then set deviceconfig setting
 ctd hold-client-request yes). By default, the firewall allows requests while 
 it looks up an uncached URL category in PAN-DB and then enforces the appropriate
 policy when the server responds. Maximize security by opting to hold requests during 
 this lookup. For details, see Configure URL Filtering.
 
 -----------------------What if I can’t block all of the recommended categories?-------------------------------
 If users need access to sites in the blocked categories,
 consider creating an allow list for just the specific sites, 
 if you feel the risk is justified.
 
 On categories you decide to allow, make sure you set up credential phishing prevention
 to ensure that users aren’t submitting their corporate 
 credentials to a site that may be hosting a phishing attack.
 
 Allowing traffic to a recommended block category poses the following risks:
	malware—Sites known to host malware or used for 
	command and control (C2) traffic.
	May also exhibit Exploit Kits.
	
	phishing—Known to host credential phishing pages
	or phishing for personal identification.
	
	dynamic-dns—Hosts and domain names for systems with
	dynamically assigned IP addresses and which are oftentimes
	used to deliver malware payloads or C2 traffic. Also, 
	dynamic DNS domains do not go through the same vetting process
	as domains that are registered by a reputable domain 
	registration company, and are therefore less trustworthy.
	
	unknown—Sites that have not yet been identified by PAN-DB. 
	If availability is critical to your business and you must allow the traffic,
	alert on unknown sites, apply the best practice Security profiles to the traffic,
	and investigate the alerts.
	
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	
A security profile is only active when these two things are in place:
The security profile is in a profile group
A profile group is a set of profiles—it can contain one profile from each profile type.
A security rule is referencing the profile group

1. Use the profile’s dashboard to create and manage your profiles (Security ServicesChoose Your Profile Type).

2.)Add the profile to a profile group ( Security ServicesProfile Groups).

3.)Reference the profile group in a security rule.

https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/zone-protection-and-dos-protection/zone-defense/zone-protection-profiles

https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/decrypt-traffic-for-full-visibility-and-threat-inspection
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/create-user-groups-for-access-to-allowed-applications
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/identify-your-application-allow-list/map-applications-to-business-goals-for-a-simplified-rulebase


------------------------------Flood--Protection-------------------------------------------------------
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/zone-protection-and-dos-protection/zone-defense/zone-protection-profiles/flood-protection
A Zone Protection profile with flood protection configured defends an entire ingress zone against 
SYN, ICMP, ICMPv6, UDP, and other IP flood attacks. The firewall measures the aggregate amount of each flood 
type entering the zone in new connections-per-second (CPS) and compares the totals to the thresholds 
you configure in the Zone Protection profile. (You protect critical individual devices within a zone 
with DoS Protection profiles and policy rules.)

For each flood type, you set three thresholds for new CPS entering the zone, 
and you can set a drop Action for SYN floods. If you know the baseline CPS rates for the zone, 
use these guidelines to set the initial thresholds, and then monitor and adjust the thresholds as necessary.

	Alarm Rate—
	The new CPS threshold to trigger an alarm. Target setting the Alarm Rate
	to 15-20% above the average CPS rate 
	for the zone so that normal fluctuations don’t cause alerts.

	Activate—
	The new CPS threshold to activate the flood protection mechanism 
	and begin dropping new connections. For ICMP, ICMPv6, UDP, and other IP floods,
	the protection mechanism is Random Early Drop (RED, also known as Random Early Detection).
	For SYN floods only, you can set the drop Action to SYN Cookies or RED. 
	Target setting the Activate rate to just above the peak CPS rate for the zone to begin
	mitigating potential floods.
	
	Maximum—
	The number of connections-per-second to drop incoming packets when RED is the protection mechanism. 
	Target setting the Maximum rate to approximately 80-90% of firewall capacity, taking into account 
	other features that consume firewall resources.
	
Flood-Protection-Pro-Tips-------------------------------------------
-If you don’t know the baseline CPS rates for the zone, start by setting the Maximum CPS rate to approximately 80-90%
 of firewall capacity and use it to derive reasonable flood mitigation alarm and activation rates.
 
-Set the Alarm Rate and Activate rate based on the Maximum rate. 
 For example, you could set the Alarm Rate to half the Maximum rate 
 and adjust it depending on how many alarms you receive 
 and the firewall resources being consumed. 
 
- Be careful setting the Activate Rate since it begins to drop connections. 
 Because normal traffic loads experience some fluctuation, it’s best not to 
 drop connections too aggressively. Err on the high side and adjust the rate 
 if firewall resources are impacted.
 
-SYN Flood Protection is the only type for which you set the drop Action.
 Start by setting the Action to SYN Cookies. SYN Cookies treats legitimate
 traffic fairly and only drops traffic that fails the SYN handshake
 
-while using Random Early Drop drops traffic randomly, so RED may affect legitimate traffic. 

-However, SYN Cookies is more resource-intensive because the firewall acts as a proxy for the target server 
and handles the three-way handshake for the server.

-The tradeoff is not dropping legitimate traffic (SYN Cookies) versus preserving firewall resources (RED)

-Monitor the firewall, and if SYN Cookies consumes too many resources, switch to RED. 
If you don’t have a dedicated DDoS prevention device in front of the firewall, 
always use RED as the drop mechanism.


------------------------------Recon--Protection-------------------------------------------------------
-Reconnaissance activities are often preludes to a network attack. 
Enable Reconnaissance Protection on all zones to defend 
against port scans and host sweeps:

	-Port scans discover open ports on a network. 
	A port scanning tool sends client requests 
	to a range of port numbers on a host, with the 
	goal of locating an active port to exploit in an attack. 
	Zone Protection profiles defend against TCP and UDP port scans.
	
	-Host sweeps examine multiple hosts to determine 
	if a specific port is open and vulnerable.
	
Configure Reconnaissance Protection:
	Configure one of the following Reconnaissance Protection actions for the firewall 
	to take in response to the corresponding reconnaissance attempt:
	
	-Allow:
	—The firewall allows the port scan or host sweep reconnaissance to continue.
	
	-Alert:
	—The firewall generates an alert for each port scan or host sweep that
	matches the configured threshold within the specified time interval.
	Alert is the default action.
	
	-Block
	—The firewall drops all subsequent packets from the source to 
	the destination for the remainder of the specified time interval.
	
	-Block IP
	—The firewall drops all subsequent packets for the specified Duration,
	in seconds (the range is 1-3,600). Track By determines whether the
	firewall blocks source or source-and-destination traffic.

	1.Configure Reconnaissance Protection.:
		-Select Network > Network Profiles > Zone Protection.
		
		-Select a Zone Protection profile 
		or Add a new profile and enter a Name for it.
		
		-On the Reconnaissance Protection tab,
		select the scan types to protect against.
		
		-Select an Action for each scan. 
		If you select Block IP, you must also configure Track By
		(source or source-and-destination) and Duration.
		
		-Set the Interval in seconds. 
		This options defines the time interval
		for port scan and host sweep detection.
		
		-Set the Threshold.
		The threshold defines the number of port scan 
		events or host sweeps that occurs within the 
		interval configured above that triggers an action.

	2. Configure a Source Address Exclusion.
	
		-On the Reconnaissance Protection tab, 
			Add a Source Address Exclusion.
		
		-Enter a descriptive Name 
			for the address you want to exclude.
		
		Set the Address Type to IPv4 or IPv6
			and then select an address object or enter an IP address.
	
		Click OK.
		
		Click OK 
			to save the Zone Protection profile.
		
		Commit your changes.
		
		
		
---------Packet-Based Attack Protection-----------------ZONES-----------------------	
	Packet-based attacks take many forms.
	Zone Protection profiles check 
	IP, TCP, ICMP, IPv6, and ICMPv6 
	packet headers and protect a zone by:
		-Dropping packets with undesirable characteristics.
		-Stripping undesirable options from packets before admitting them to the zone.
		
Select the drop characteristics for each packet type when you
Configure Packet Based Attack Protection.
The best practices for each IP protocol are:
	
	-IP Drop:
	—Drop Unknown and Malformed packets. Also drop Strict Source Routing 
	and Loose Source Routing because allowing these options allows adversaries
	to bypass Security policy rules that use the Destination IP address 
	as the matching criteria. For internal zones only, check Spoofed IP Address
	so only traffic with a source address that matches the 
	firewall routing table can access the zone.
	
	-TCP Drop:
	—Retain the default TCP SYN with Data and TCP SYNACK with Data drops,
	drop Mismatched overlapping TCP segment and Split Handshake packets, 
	and strip the TCP Timestamp from packets.
	
	-ICMP Drop:
	—There are no standard best practice settings because dropping
	ICMP packets depends on how you use ICMP (or if you use ICMP).
	For example, if you want to block ping activity, 
	you can block ICMP Ping ID 0.
	
	-IPv6 Drop:
	—If compliance matters, ensure that the firewall 
	drops packets	with non-compliant routing headers,
	extensions, etc.
	
	-ICMPv6 Drop:
	—If compliance matters, ensure that the firewall 
	drops certain packets if the packets don’t 
	match a Security policy rule.
	
	
	
		Create a Zone Protection profile and configure Packet-Based Attack Protection settings.
		
		Select Network>Network Profiles>Zone Protection and Add a new profile.
		
		Enter a Name for the profile and an optional Description.
		
		Select Packet Based Attack Protection.
		
		On each tab (IP Drop, TCP Drop, ICMP Drop, IPv6 Drop, and ICMPv6 Drop), select the Packet-Based Attack Protection settings you want to enforce to protect a zone.
		
		Click OK.
		
		
		Apply the Zone Protection profile to a security zone that is assigned to interfaces you want to protect.
		
		Select Network>Zones >and select the zone where you want to assign the Zone Protection profile.
		
		Add the Interfaces belonging to the zone.
		
		For Zone Protection Profile, select the profile you just created.
		
		Click OK.
		
		Commit your changes.
		
		Access the CLI.
		
		Use the operational CLI command 
		>set system setting additional-threat-log on.
		Default is off.
	
	
	
	
	
	Configure Tunnel Content Inspection:
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/networking/tunnel-content-inspection/configure-tunnel-content-inspection
	
		Create User Groups for Access to Allowed Applications:
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/create-user-groups-for-access-to-allowed-applications

Decrypt Traffic for Full Visibility and Threat Inspection:
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/decrypt-traffic-for-full-visibility-and-threat-inspection

Virtual-Systems
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/virtual-systems

Enable virtual systems.
Select Device>Setup>Management >and edit the General Settings.

Select the Multi Virtual System Capability check box and click OK. This action triggers a commit if you approve it.

Only after enabling virtual systems will the Device tab display the Virtual Systems and Shared Gateways options.

Create a virtual system.

Select DeviceVirtual Systems, click Add and enter a virtual system ID, which is appended to “vsys” (range is 1-255).

The default is vsys1. You cannot delete vsys1 because it is relevant to the internal hierarchy on the firewall;
 vsys1 appears even on firewall models that don’t support multiple virtual systems.


Select Allow forwarding of decrypted content if you want to allow the firewall 
to forward decrypted content to an outside service. For example, you must enable 
this option for the firewall to be able to send decrypted content to WildFire for analysis.

Enter a descriptive Name for the virtual system. 
A maximum of 31 alphanumeric, space,
 and underscore characters is allowed.

Assign interfaces to the virtual system.

The virtual routers, virtual wires, 
or VLANs can either be configured already or you can configure them 
later, at which point you specify the virtual system associated with each.

On the General tab, select a DNS Proxy object 
if you want to apply DNS proxy rules to the interface.

In the Interfaces field, click 
Add to enter the interfaces or subinterfaces to assign to the virtual system.
 An interface can belong to only one virtual system.

Do any of the following, based on the deployment
type(s) you need in the virtual system:

In the VLANs field, click 
Add to enter the VLAN(s) to assign to the vsys.

In the Virtual Wires field, 
click Add to enter the virtual wire(s)
 to assign to the vsys.

In the Virtual Routers field, 
click Add to enter the virtual router(s) to assign to the vsys.

In the Visible Virtual System field, 
check all virtual systems that should be made visible 
to the virtual system being configured. This is required
 for virtual systems that need to communicate with each other.

In a multi-tenancy scenario where strict administrative boundaries 
are required, no virtual systems would be checked.


Click OK.


---------------Configure Inter-Virtual System Communication within the Firewall---------------
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/virtual-systems/configure-inter-virtual-system-communication-within-the-firewall
Configure an external zone for each virtual system.

Select NetworkZones and Add a new zone by Name.

For Location, select the virtual system 
for which you are creating an external zone.

For Type, select External.

For Virtual Systems, click Add 
and enter the virtual system that the
 external zone can reach.

(Optional) Select a Zone Protection Profile
 (or configure one later) that provides flood, 
 reconnaissance, or packet-based attack protection.
 
(Optional) In Log Setting, select a log forwarding profile 
for forwarding zone protection logs to an external system.

(Optional) Select Enable User Identification to enable User-ID for the external zone.

Click OK.

Configure the Security policy 
 rules to allow or deny traffic 
 from the internal zones to the 
 external zone of the virtual system, 
 and vice versa.

See Create a Security Policy Rule.

See Inter-VSYS Traffic That
 Remains Within the Firewall.

Commit your changes.

Click Commit.








1.) ----------------Config interfaces------------------------------------------------

Configure Layer 3 Interfaces
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/networking/configure-interfaces/layer-3-interfaces/configure-layer-3-interfaces#iddc65fa08-60b8-47b2-a695-2e546b4615e9
 if a tunnel is used for routing or if tunnel monitoring is turned on,
 the tunnel needs an IP address. Before performing the following task, 
 define one or more Virtual Routers.
 
 You would typically use the following procedure
 to configure an external interface 
 that connects to the internet 
 and an interface for your internal network. 
 
 
 
 Select an interface and configure it with a security zone.
 
Select NetworkInterfaces and either Ethernet, VLAN, loopback, or Tunnel,
 depending on what type of interface you want.
 
Select the interface to configure.

Select the Interface Type—Layer3.

On the Config tab, for Virtual Router, 
select the virtual router you are configuring,
 such as default.

For Virtual System, select the virtual
 system you are configuring if on a multi-virtual
 system firewall.

For Security Zone,
 select the zone to 
 which the interface belongs
 or create a New Zone.

Click OK.

Configure the interface 
with an IPv4 address.

You can assign an IPv4 address
 to a Layer 3 interface in one of three ways:

Static-

DHCP Client
—The firewall interface acts as a DHCP client 
and receives a dynamically assigned IP address. 
The firewall also provides the capability to propagate 
settings received by the DHCP client interface into a DHCP 
server operating on the firewall. This is most commonly 
used to propagate DNS server settings from an Internet service 
provider to client machines operating on the network protected
 by the firewall.
 
PPPoE
—Configure the interface as a 
Point-to-Point Protocol over Ethernet (PPPoE) 
termination point to support connectivity in a 
Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) environment where 
there is a DSL modem but no other PPPoE device to 
terminate the connection.

SETUP:
>Select Network>Interfaces> and either Ethernet,
 VLAN, loopback, or Tunnel, 
 depending on what type of interface you want.

>Select the interface to configure.

>To configure the interface with a 
static IPv4 address, on the IPv4 tab, 
set Type to Static.

>Add a Name and optional 
Description for the address.

>For Type, select one of the following:

>IP Netmask—Enter the IP address and 
network mask to assign to the interface,
 for example, 208.80.56.100/24.

>If you’re using a /31 subnet mask for the Layer 3 
interface address, the interface must be configured with 
the .1/31 address in order for utilities such as ping 
to work properly.

>If you’re configuring a loopback interface 
with an IPv4 address, it must have a /32 subnet mask; 
for example, 192.168.2.1/32.

>IP Range—Enter an IP address range, 
such as 192.168.2.1-192.168.2.4.

>FQDN—Enter a Fully Qualified Domain Name.

>Select Tags to apply to the address.

>Click OK.

>Configure an interface with Point-to-Point Protocol 
over Ethernet (PPPoE). See Layer 3 Interfaces.

-PPPoE is not supported in HA active/active mode.-

>Select NetworkInterfaces and 
either Ethernet, VLAN, loopback, or Tunnel.

>Select the interface to configure.

>On the IPv4 tab, set Type to PPPoE.

>On the General tab, select Enable 
to activate the interface for
 PPPoE termination.

>Enter the Username for 
the point-to-point connection.

>Enter the Password for the
 username and Confirm Password.

>Click OK.

>Configure an Interface as a 
DHCP Client so that it receives 
a dynamically-assigned IPv4 address.

Set Up Network Access for External Services
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/10-1/pan-os-admin/getting-started/integrate-the-firewall-into-your-management-network/set-up-network-access-for-external-services
Register the Firewall
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/10-1/pan-os-admin/getting-started/register-the-firewall

Segment Your Network Using Interfaces and Zones
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/10-1/pan-os-admin/getting-started/segment-your-network-using-interfaces-and-zones

Network Segmentation for a Reduced Attack Surface
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/10-1/pan-os-admin/getting-started/segment-your-network-using-interfaces-and-zones/network-segmentation-for-a-reduced-attack-surface#idf13795cf-8fe2-4f90-acb8-1429269ee07d

Configure Interfaces and Zones
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/10-1/pan-os-admin/getting-started/segment-your-network-using-interfaces-and-zones/configure-interfaces-and-zones#idd5f608e0-6f9f-4438-8526-23d34d00b01a
Configure a default route to your Internet router.

Select Network>Virtual Router>
 and then select the default link 
 to open the Virtual Router dialog.

Select the Static Routes tab and click Add. 
Enter a Name for the route and enter the route in the Destination field
 (for example, 0.0.0.0/0).
 
Select the IP Address radio button 
in the Next Hop field and then enter
 the IP address and netmask for your 
 Internet gateway (for example, 203.0.113.1).

Click OK twice to save the virtual router configuration.

Configure the external interface (the interface that connects to the Internet).

Select Network>Interfaces and then select the interface
 you want to configure. In this example, 
 we are configuring Ethernet1/8 as the external interface.
 
Select the Interface Type. 
 Although your choice here 
 depends on interface topology,
 this example shows the steps for Layer3.
 
On the Config tab, select New Zone from the 
 Security Zone drop-down. In the Zone dialog, 
 define a Name for new zone, for example Internet,
 and then click OK.

In the Virtual Router drop-down, select default.

To assign an IP address to the interface,
 select the IPv4 tab, 
 click Add in the IP section, 
 and enter the IP address and network mask 
 to assign to the interface, for example 203.0.113.23/24.

To enable you to ping the interface, 
 select Advanced>Other Info, expand the 
 Management Profile drop-down, 
 and select New Management Profile.
 Enter a Name for the profile, select Ping
 and then click OK.
 
To save the interface configuration, click OK.

Configure the interface that 
 connects to your internal network.

In this example, the interface connects 
 to a network segment that uses private IP addresses. 
 Because private IP addresses cannot be routed externally, 
 
 you have to configure NAT.

Select Network>Interfaces 
 and select the interface you want to configure. 
 In this example, we are configuring Ethernet1/15 
 as the internal interface our users connect to.

Select Layer3 as the Interface Type.

On the Config tab, expand the Security Zone
 drop-down and select New Zone. In the Zone dialog,
 define a Name for new zone, for example Users, 
 and then click OK.

Select the same Virtual Router
 you used previously, 
 default in this example.

To assign an IP address to the interface, 
 select the IPv4 tab, 
 click Add in the IP section, 
 and enter the IP address and network mask 
 to assign to the interface, for example 192.168.1.4/24.
 
To enable you to ping the interface, 
 select the management profile 
 that you just created.

To save the interface configuration,
 click OK.
 
Configure the interface that connects 
to your data center applications.

Make sure you define granular zones to 
prevent unauthorized access to sensitive 
applications or data and eliminate the
possibility of malware moving laterally 
within your data center.
Select the interface you want to configure.

Select Layer3 from the Interface Type drop-down.
 In this example, we are configuring Ethernet1/1 
 as the interface that provides access to your 
 data center applications.
 
On the Config tab, 
 expand the Security Zone drop-down 
 and select New Zone. In the Zone dialog, 
 define a Name for new zone, 
 for example Data Center Applications, 
 and then click OK.
 
Select the same Virtual Router you used previously,
 default in this example.
 
To assign an IP address to the interface, 
select the IPv4 tab, click Add in the IP section,
 and enter the IP address and network mask to assign
 to the interface, for example 10.1.1.1/24.
 
To enable you to ping the interface, 
select the management profile that you created.

To save the interface configuration, click OK.

(Optional) Create tags for each zone.
  Tags allow you to visually scan policy rules.
  Select ObjectsTags and Add.
  Select a zone Name.
  Select a tag Color and click OK.

Save the interface configuration.

Click Commit.

Cable the firewall.

Attach straight through cables from the interfaces you configured 
to the corresponding switch or router on each network segment.

Verify that the interfaces are active.

Select Dashboard and verify that the interfaces you configured show as green in the Interfaces widget.





-----------------Set Up a Basic Security Policy--------------------------------------------------------------------
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/10-1/pan-os-admin/getting-started/set-up-a-basic-security-policy

(Optional) Delete the default Security policy rule.

By default, the firewall includes a Security policy rule
 named rule1 that allows all traffic from Trust zone to Untrust zone.
 You can either delete the rule or modify the rule to reflect your 
 zone-naming conventions.
 
Allow access to your network infrastructure resources.

Select Policies>Security and click Add.

In the General tab, enter a descriptive Name for the rule.

In the Source tab, set the Source Zone to Users.

In the Destination tab, set the Destination Zone to IT Infrastructure.

(Optional) Delete the default Security policy rule.

By default, the firewall includes a Security policy rule named rule1 
that allows all traffic from Trust zone to Untrust zone. You can either delete the rule
 or modify the rule to reflect your zone-naming conventions.
 
Allow access to your network infrastructure resources.

Select PoliciesSecurity and click Add.

In the General tab, enter a descriptive Name for the rule.

In the Source tab, set the Source Zone to Users.

In the Destination tab, set the Destination Zone to IT Infrastructure.

Select PoliciesSecurity and Add a rule.

In the General tab, enter a descriptive Name for the rule.

In the Source tab, set the Source Zone to Users.

In the Destination tab, set the Destination Zone to Internet.

In the Applications tab, Add an Application Filter and enter a Name. 
To safely enable access to legitimate web-based applications, set the Category 
in the application filter to general-internet and then click OK. To enable access 
to encrypted sites, Add the ssl application.

In the Service/URL Category tab, keep the Service set to application-default.

In the Actions tab, set the Action Setting to Allow.

Set Profile Type to Profiles and select the following security profiles to attach to the policy rule:

For Antivirus, select default

For Vulnerability Protection, select strict

For Anti-Spyware, select strict

For URL Filtering, select default

For File Blocking, select strict file blocking

For WildFire Analysis, select default

Verify that Log at Session End is enabled. Only traffic that matches a security rule will be logged.

Click OK.

Select PoliciesSecurity and Add a rule.

In the General tab, enter a descriptive Name for the rule.

In the Source tab, set the Source Zone to Users.

In the Destination tab, set the Destination Zone to Internet.

In the Applications tab, Add an Application Filter and enter a Name. 
 To safely enable access to legitimate web-based applications, 
 set the Category in the application filter to general-internet and then click OK. 
 To enable access to encrypted sites, Add the ssl application.

In the Service/URL Category tab, 
 keep the Service set to application-default.

 In the Actions tab, set the Action Setting to Allow.

Set Profile Type to Profiles and select the 
 following security profiles to attach to the policy rule:

For Antivirus, select default

For Vulnerability Protection, select strict

For Anti-Spyware, select strict

For URL Filtering, select default

For File Blocking, select strict file blocking

For WildFire Analysis, select default

Verify that Log at Session End is enabled. 
 Only traffic that matches a security rule will be logged.

Click OK.

Save your policy rules to the running configuration on the firewall.

Click Commit.

To verify that you have set up your basic policies effectively, 
 test whether your Security policy rules are being evaluated and determine
 which Security policy rule applies to a traffic flow.
 
For example, to verify the policy rule that will be applied for 
a client in the user zone with the IP address 10.35.14.150 
when it sends a DNS query to the DNS server in the data center:

Select DeviceTroubleshooting a
nd select Security Policy Match (Select Test).

Enter the Source and Destination IP addresses.

Enter the Protocol.

Select dns (Application)

Execute the Security policy match test.