----------------------------Security-Stuff------------------------------------------------


default—  Applies the default action to all client and server critical, 
	high, and medium severity spyware/vulnerability protection events. 
	It does not detect low and informational events.
	
strict— Applies the block response to all client and server critical, 
	high and medium severity spyware/vulnerability protection events 
	and uses the default action for low and informational events.
	
	



----------------------------------Verify Subscription ---------------------------------------------------------------------------	
1.)Verify that you have a Threat Prevention subscription.
	select Device:> Licenses >and verify 
		77that the Threat Prevention expiration date is in the future.
	
2.) Download latest content
	-Select Device >Dynamic Updates >and click Check Now 
		at the bottom of the page to retrieve the latest signatures.
	
	-Actions column, click Download and install 
		the latest Antivirus updates and then download and then Install 
		the latest Applications and Threats updates.
	
3.) Schedule content updates.
	-Select Device>Dynamic Updates >and then click Schedule
		to automatically retrieve signature updates for 
		Antivirus and Applications and Threats.
	
	-Specify the frequency and timing for the updates:
	
		download-only—The firewall automatically downloads 
		the latest updates per the schedule 
		you define but you must manually Install them
	
		download-and-install—The firewall automatically downloads and installs
		the updates per the schedule you define.
		
	-click ok
	
	
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4.)
	-(Optional) Create custom security profiles for antivirus, anti-spyware, and vulnerability protection.
	-To create custom Antivirus Profiles, select Objects >Security Profiles>Antivirus 
	and Add a new profile. Use the Antivirus profile transition steps to safely reach your goal.
	
	-To create custom Anti-Spyware Profiles, >select Objects
	Security Profiles>Anti-Spyware >and Add a new profile. 
	Use the Anti-Spyware profile transition steps to safely reach your goal.
	
	-To create custom Vulnerability Protection Profiles, select Objects>Security Profiles>Vulnerability 
	Protection and Add a new profile.
	Use the Vulnerability Protection profile transition steps to safely reach your goal.
	
5.) Attach security profiles to your Security policy rules.
(security profile will automatically block connections that traffic ... See monitor blocked ip's)
	-Select Policies>Security >and select the rule you want to modify.
	-In the Actions tab, select Profiles as the Profile Type.
	-Select the security profiles you created for Antivirus, Anti-Spyware, and Vulnerability Protection.
	
6.) Commit

 (Monitor>Logs>Threat) to see if you can block applications for which you receive alerts or if you need to allow them.
 The default action for most low and informational severity signatures is alert or allow. Unless you have a specific need to alert on all low and informational signatures, configure the default action from the start.
 
 

 
 
 
----------------------Best Practice Internet Gateway File Blocking Profile:--------------------------------

Use the predefined strict file blocking profile to block files that are commonly included in malware attack campaigns 
and that have no real use case for upload/download. Blocking these files reduces the attack surface.
 The predefined strict profile blocks batch files, DLLs, Java class files, help files,
 Windows shortcuts (.lnk), BitTorrent files, .rar files, .tar files, encrypted-rar and encrypted-zip files, 
 multi-level encoded files (files encoded or compressed up to four times), .hta files, 
 and Windows Portable Executable (PE) files, which include 
 .exe, .cpl, .dll, .ocx, .sys, .scr, .drv, .efi, .fon, and .pif files. 
 The predefined strict profile alerts on all other file types for visibility into other file transfers
 so that you can determine if you need to make policy changes.
 
 
 Review the data filtering logs (MonitorLogsData Filtering) 
 to identify file types and talk with business stakeholders 
 about the file types their applications require.
 
What if I can’t block all of the file types covered in the predefined strict profile?
If you have mission-critical applications that prevent you from 
blocking all of the file types included in the predefined strict profile,
you can clone the profile and modify it for those users 
who must transfer a file type covered






-----------------------Best Practice Internet Gateway Antivirus Profile----------------------------------------------
Clone the default Antivirus profile and edit it. 





----------------Best Practice Internet Gateway Vulnerability Protection Profile---------------------------------
Attach a Vulnerability Protection profile to all allowed traffic 
to protect against buffer overflows, illegal code execution,
and other attempts to exploit client- and server-side vulnerabilities. 
Clone the predefined strict Vulnerability Protection profile. 


For the best practice profile, for each rule except simple-client-informational 
and simple-server-informational, double-click the Rule Name and change 
Packet Capture from disable to single-packet to enable packet capture (PCAP)
for each rule so you can track down the source of potential attacks. 
Don’t change the rest of the settings. Download content updates automatically 
and install them as soon as possible so that the signature set is always up-to-date.

Don’t enable PCAP for informational activity because it generates a relatively high volume
 of that traffic and it’s not particularly useful compared to potential threats. 
 Apply extended PCAP (as opposed to single PCAP) to high-value traffic to 
 which you apply the alert Action. 
 
Apply single PCAP to traffic you block. The default number of packets that extended PCAP records 
and sends to the management plane is five packets, which is the recommended value. In most cases, 
capturing five packets provides enough information to analyze the threat. If too much PCAP traffic 
is sent to the management plane, then capturing more than five packets may result in dropping PCAPs.



-------------------Best Practice Internet Gateway Anti-Spyware Profile--------------------------------------

Attach an Anti-Spyware profile to all allowed traffic to detect command and control traffic (C2) 
initiated from malicious code running on a server or endpoint and prevent compromised systems 
from establishing an outbound connection from your network. 
Clone the predefined strict Anti-Spyware profile and edit it. 

 Edit the profile to enable DNS sinkhole and packet capture to help you track down 
 the endpoint that attempted to resolve the malicious domain. The best practice
 Anti-Spyware profile retains the default Action to reset the connection when the 
 firewall detects a medium, high, or critical severity threat, and enables single
 packet capture (PCAP) for those threats.
 
 The best practice Action on DNS Queries is to block or to sinkhole DNS queries
 for known malicious domains. It is also a best practice to enable PCAPs.
 
 Enabling DNS sinkhole identifies potentially compromised hosts that attempt 
 to access suspicious domains by tracking the hosts and preventing them from 
 accessing those domains. Enable DNS sinkhole when the firewall can’t see the
 originator of the DNS query (typically when the firewall is north of the local DNS server)
 so that you can identify infected hosts. Don’t enable DNS sinkhole when the firewall can see 
 the originator of the DNS query (typically when the firewall is south of the local DNS server; 
 in this case, the firewall’s blocking rules and logs provide visibility into the traffic) 
 or on traffic you block.
 
 
 
 --------------------Best Practice Internet Gateway URL Filtering Profile------------------------------------
Use PAN-DB URL filtering to prevent access to web content high-risk for being malicious. 
Attach a URL Filtering profile to all rules that allow access to web-based applications 
to protect against URLs that Palo Alto Networks has observed hosting 
malware or exploitive content.

 The best practice URL Filtering profile sets all known dangerous URL categories to block. 
 These include command-and-control, copyright-infringement, dynamic-dns, extremism, malware,
 phishing, proxy-avoidance-and-anonymizers, unknown, newly-registered-domain, grayware, and parked. 
 Failure to block these dangerous categories puts you at risk for exploit infiltration, 
 malware download, command-and-control activity, and data exfiltration.
 
 In addition to blocking known bad categories, alert on all other categories so you have visibility 
 into the sites your users are visiting. If you need to phase in a block policy, set categories
 to continue and create a custom response page to educate users about your acceptable use policies
 and alert them to the fact they are visiting a site that may pose a threat. This paves the way for 
 you to outright block the categories after a monitoring period.
 
 If you have a business purpose for a dynamic DNS domain, 
 then make sure you allow those URLs in your URL Filtering profile.
 
 If you are running PAN-OS 9.0.4 or later, ensure that the firewall 
 handles user web requests as securely as possible by enabling the o
 ption to hold client requests (enter config then set deviceconfig setting
 ctd hold-client-request yes). By default, the firewall allows requests while 
 it looks up an uncached URL category in PAN-DB and then enforces the appropriate
 policy when the server responds. Maximize security by opting to hold requests during 
 this lookup. For details, see Configure URL Filtering.
 
 -----------------------What if I can’t block all of the recommended categories?-------------------------------
 If users need access to sites in the blocked categories,
 consider creating an allow list for just the specific sites, 
 if you feel the risk is justified.
 
 On categories you decide to allow, make sure you set up credential phishing prevention
 to ensure that users aren’t submitting their corporate 
 credentials to a site that may be hosting a phishing attack.
 
 Allowing traffic to a recommended block category poses the following risks:
	malware—Sites known to host malware or used for 
	command and control (C2) traffic.
	May also exhibit Exploit Kits.
	
	phishing—Known to host credential phishing pages
	or phishing for personal identification.
	
	dynamic-dns—Hosts and domain names for systems with
	dynamically assigned IP addresses and which are oftentimes
	used to deliver malware payloads or C2 traffic. Also, 
	dynamic DNS domains do not go through the same vetting process
	as domains that are registered by a reputable domain 
	registration company, and are therefore less trustworthy.
	
	unknown—Sites that have not yet been identified by PAN-DB. 
	If availability is critical to your business and you must allow the traffic,
	alert on unknown sites, apply the best practice Security profiles to the traffic,
	and investigate the alerts.
	
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	
A security profile is only active when these two things are in place:
The security profile is in a profile group
A profile group is a set of profiles—it can contain one profile from each profile type.
A security rule is referencing the profile group

1. Use the profile’s dashboard to create and manage your profiles (Security ServicesChoose Your Profile Type).

2.)Add the profile to a profile group ( Security ServicesProfile Groups).

3.)Reference the profile group in a security rule.

https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/zone-protection-and-dos-protection/zone-defense/zone-protection-profiles

https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/decrypt-traffic-for-full-visibility-and-threat-inspection
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/create-user-groups-for-access-to-allowed-applications
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/identify-your-application-allow-list/map-applications-to-business-goals-for-a-simplified-rulebase


------------------------------Flood--Protection-------------------------------------------------------
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/zone-protection-and-dos-protection/zone-defense/zone-protection-profiles/flood-protection
A Zone Protection profile with flood protection configured defends an entire ingress zone against 
SYN, ICMP, ICMPv6, UDP, and other IP flood attacks. The firewall measures the aggregate amount of each flood 
type entering the zone in new connections-per-second (CPS) and compares the totals to the thresholds 
you configure in the Zone Protection profile. (You protect critical individual devices within a zone 
with DoS Protection profiles and policy rules.)

For each flood type, you set three thresholds for new CPS entering the zone, 
and you can set a drop Action for SYN floods. If you know the baseline CPS rates for the zone, 
use these guidelines to set the initial thresholds, and then monitor and adjust the thresholds as necessary.

	Alarm Rate—
	The new CPS threshold to trigger an alarm. Target setting the Alarm Rate
	to 15-20% above the average CPS rate 
	for the zone so that normal fluctuations don’t cause alerts.

	Activate—
	The new CPS threshold to activate the flood protection mechanism 
	and begin dropping new connections. For ICMP, ICMPv6, UDP, and other IP floods,
	the protection mechanism is Random Early Drop (RED, also known as Random Early Detection).
	For SYN floods only, you can set the drop Action to SYN Cookies or RED. 
	Target setting the Activate rate to just above the peak CPS rate for the zone to begin
	mitigating potential floods.
	
	Maximum—
	The number of connections-per-second to drop incoming packets when RED is the protection mechanism. 
	Target setting the Maximum rate to approximately 80-90% of firewall capacity, taking into account 
	other features that consume firewall resources.
	
Flood-Protection-Pro-Tips-------------------------------------------
-If you don’t know the baseline CPS rates for the zone, start by setting the Maximum CPS rate to approximately 80-90%
 of firewall capacity and use it to derive reasonable flood mitigation alarm and activation rates.
 
-Set the Alarm Rate and Activate rate based on the Maximum rate. 
 For example, you could set the Alarm Rate to half the Maximum rate 
 and adjust it depending on how many alarms you receive 
 and the firewall resources being consumed. 
 
- Be careful setting the Activate Rate since it begins to drop connections. 
 Because normal traffic loads experience some fluctuation, it’s best not to 
 drop connections too aggressively. Err on the high side and adjust the rate 
 if firewall resources are impacted.
 
-SYN Flood Protection is the only type for which you set the drop Action.
 Start by setting the Action to SYN Cookies. SYN Cookies treats legitimate
 traffic fairly and only drops traffic that fails the SYN handshake
 
-while using Random Early Drop drops traffic randomly, so RED may affect legitimate traffic. 

-However, SYN Cookies is more resource-intensive because the firewall acts as a proxy for the target server 
and handles the three-way handshake for the server.

-The tradeoff is not dropping legitimate traffic (SYN Cookies) versus preserving firewall resources (RED)

-Monitor the firewall, and if SYN Cookies consumes too many resources, switch to RED. 
If you don’t have a dedicated DDoS prevention device in front of the firewall, 
always use RED as the drop mechanism.


------------------------------Recon--Protection-------------------------------------------------------
-Reconnaissance activities are often preludes to a network attack. 
Enable Reconnaissance Protection on all zones to defend 
against port scans and host sweeps:

	-Port scans discover open ports on a network. 
	A port scanning tool sends client requests 
	to a range of port numbers on a host, with the 
	goal of locating an active port to exploit in an attack. 
	Zone Protection profiles defend against TCP and UDP port scans.
	
	-Host sweeps examine multiple hosts to determine 
	if a specific port is open and vulnerable.
	
Configure Reconnaissance Protection:
	Configure one of the following Reconnaissance Protection actions for the firewall 
	to take in response to the corresponding reconnaissance attempt:
	
	-Allow:
	—The firewall allows the port scan or host sweep reconnaissance to continue.
	
	-Alert:
	—The firewall generates an alert for each port scan or host sweep that
	matches the configured threshold within the specified time interval.
	Alert is the default action.
	
	-Block
	—The firewall drops all subsequent packets from the source to 
	the destination for the remainder of the specified time interval.
	
	-Block IP
	—The firewall drops all subsequent packets for the specified Duration,
	in seconds (the range is 1-3,600). Track By determines whether the
	firewall blocks source or source-and-destination traffic.

	1.Configure Reconnaissance Protection.:
		-Select Network > Network Profiles > Zone Protection.
		
		-Select a Zone Protection profile 
		or Add a new profile and enter a Name for it.
		
		-On the Reconnaissance Protection tab,
		select the scan types to protect against.
		
		-Select an Action for each scan. 
		If you select Block IP, you must also configure Track By
		(source or source-and-destination) and Duration.
		
		-Set the Interval in seconds. 
		This options defines the time interval
		for port scan and host sweep detection.
		
		-Set the Threshold.
		The threshold defines the number of port scan 
		events or host sweeps that occurs within the 
		interval configured above that triggers an action.

	2. Configure a Source Address Exclusion.
	
		-On the Reconnaissance Protection tab, 
			Add a Source Address Exclusion.
		
		-Enter a descriptive Name 
			for the address you want to exclude.
		
		Set the Address Type to IPv4 or IPv6
			and then select an address object or enter an IP address.
	
		Click OK.
		
		Click OK 
			to save the Zone Protection profile.
		
		Commit your changes.
		
		
		
---------Packet-Based Attack Protection-----------------ZONES-----------------------	
	Packet-based attacks take many forms.
	Zone Protection profiles check 
	IP, TCP, ICMP, IPv6, and ICMPv6 
	packet headers and protect a zone by:
		-Dropping packets with undesirable characteristics.
		-Stripping undesirable options from packets before admitting them to the zone.
		
Select the drop characteristics for each packet type when you
Configure Packet Based Attack Protection.
The best practices for each IP protocol are:
	
	-IP Drop:
	—Drop Unknown and Malformed packets. Also drop Strict Source Routing 
	and Loose Source Routing because allowing these options allows adversaries
	to bypass Security policy rules that use the Destination IP address 
	as the matching criteria. For internal zones only, check Spoofed IP Address
	so only traffic with a source address that matches the 
	firewall routing table can access the zone.
	
	-TCP Drop:
	—Retain the default TCP SYN with Data and TCP SYNACK with Data drops,
	drop Mismatched overlapping TCP segment and Split Handshake packets, 
	and strip the TCP Timestamp from packets.
	
	-ICMP Drop:
	—There are no standard best practice settings because dropping
	ICMP packets depends on how you use ICMP (or if you use ICMP).
	For example, if you want to block ping activity, 
	you can block ICMP Ping ID 0.
	
	-IPv6 Drop:
	—If compliance matters, ensure that the firewall 
	drops packets	with non-compliant routing headers,
	extensions, etc.
	
	-ICMPv6 Drop:
	—If compliance matters, ensure that the firewall 
	drops certain packets if the packets don’t 
	match a Security policy rule.
	
	
	
		Create a Zone Protection profile and configure Packet-Based Attack Protection settings.
		
		Select Network>Network Profiles>Zone Protection and Add a new profile.
		
		Enter a Name for the profile and an optional Description.
		
		Select Packet Based Attack Protection.
		
		On each tab (IP Drop, TCP Drop, ICMP Drop, IPv6 Drop, and ICMPv6 Drop), select the Packet-Based Attack Protection settings you want to enforce to protect a zone.
		
		Click OK.
		
		
		Apply the Zone Protection profile to a security zone that is assigned to interfaces you want to protect.
		
		Select Network>Zones >and select the zone where you want to assign the Zone Protection profile.
		
		Add the Interfaces belonging to the zone.
		
		For Zone Protection Profile, select the profile you just created.
		
		Click OK.
		
		Commit your changes.
		
		Access the CLI.
		
		Use the operational CLI command 
		>set system setting additional-threat-log on.
		Default is off.
	
	
	
	
	
	Configure Tunnel Content Inspection:
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/9-1/pan-os-admin/networking/tunnel-content-inspection/configure-tunnel-content-inspection
	
		Create User Groups for Access to Allowed Applications:
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/create-user-groups-for-access-to-allowed-applications

Decrypt Traffic for Full Visibility and Threat Inspection:
https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/best-practices/9-1/internet-gateway-best-practices/best-practice-internet-gateway-security-policy/decrypt-traffic-for-full-visibility-and-threat-inspection
